Meeting notes for 12 December 2014
=================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Stephanie Tonneson
- Yu Lu
- Andrew Wetzel

# Milky Way Satellite Mass Functions

Andrew B. showed some plots (all in "Galacticus_Plots/") of stellar mass functions for MW/M31 - these are still relatively low-resolution so don't take them too seriously yet. They assume the best-fit host halo masses from Watkins et a. (2010), which makes the MW quite high mass and M31 low. There's an interesting bend in the mass functions around 1e7Msun which needs investigation. Also, the mass functions are entirely consistent with being Poisson distributed (as Yu found previously from his SAM).

Andrew B. also had star formation histories for these satellites. The high-mass satellites show a big diversity of star formation histories. Next step is to figure out contribution to these by mergers vs. in-situ star formation.

Annika pointed to a paper by herself and Marla Geha from last year which re-addresses the MW satellite incompleteness, and is going to see if we can get a stellar mass incompleteness function from this.

Yu showed a plot "SAM_LU/mah_mw.png" which shows mass accretion histories for Milky Way halos, highlighting those which produce LMC/SMC pairs. These are clearly biased to having lower masses at z~3 (so, more rapid mass assembly at late times), although not all halos with low masses at z~3 have LMC/SMC pairs at z=0. Yu is going to investigate if these two sets of halos differ in their subhalo mass functions at z=0.

# Ram Pressure Stripping Simulations

Stephanie now has Enzo running on our local cluster, so is going to run a test simulation using our dwarf galaxy.
