Meeting notes for 21 November 2014
=================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Adi Zolotov
- Stephanie Tonneson
- Mike Boylan-Kolchin
- Yu Lu
- Andrew Wetzel

# Dwarf Galaxy Ram Pressure Simulations

Stephanie: Has a dwarf galaxy model, rotation curve doesn't quite match observations. Uses a Burkert profile for dark matter profile so not much flexibility to alter this. All please review and comment.

Mike points out that IC1613 (which the model Stephanie is using was based on) is a weird dwarf in terms of rotation curve - rises slowly.

Next step is to figure out gas density and wind velocities that are appropriate for the ram pressure simulations.

# Milky Way Satellite Population Constraints

Andrew B. has compiled a database of Local Group galaxy properties based on McConnachie (2012) plus some more recent additions. Additional references for new data suggested were:
- Michelle Collins has papers on updated on M31 satellites
- Kristin Spekkens update on HI masses for MW dwarfs
- Tolerud papers 

Yu: Looked into predictions for satellite population. Model has very strong mass loading factor dependence on halo velocity - strong suppress ion of low mass galaxies. On average model has few high mass galaxies (e.g. SMC, LMC). Distribution of satellite number follows Poisson - which is good as it allows us to write down the likelihood function in a simple way. If you select only systems with 2 galaxies brighter than SMC, get much closer to observed number distribution of satellites. These are based on simulations by a student of Risa Wechsler - simulating Milky Way halos. 31 realizations - selected to be "quiescent" in some way.

Adi: Why is feedback suppressing even the brighter satellites?

Yu: Feedback probably wasn't strong for low mass systems at early times prior to them being accreted. 

Stephanie: Does this work as well if you just select halos to have an LMC (rather than an LMC & SMC)? Does host halo age affect the frequency of LMC/SMC?

Annika: Do we want to include a prior that we have an LMC/SMC? Or just pick a halo mass range. What is the mass of the Milky Way? 

Mike: Presence of Magellanic Clouds is strong function of halo mass, so we should use a reasonable prior on the Milky Way halo mass. 

Andrew W: Magellanic Clouds are not quenched, so they are actually a constraint on ram pressure models etc.

