Meeting notes for 24 October 2014
=================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Adi Zolotov
- Stephanie Tonneson
- Yu Lu

# Ram pressure stripping simulations

Stephanie has set up an example simulation of a dwarf irregular galaxy, with a disk geometry, as an initial test. Eventually we'll need to explore the full range of satellite masses, but this should be a straightforward change. Yu asked about the effects of ram pressure stripping and whether these can be modelled as simply removing material from the outer edge of the disk. The conclusion was, maybe, but we need to take a look at the simulations to be sure. 

# Subhalo-Subhalo mergers

Yu has been looking at subhalo-subhalo mergers. The motivation for this is to determine if we can ignore interactions between subhalos, and so run individual subhalos in isolation (isolated from other subhalos, not from the Milky Way obviously). Initial results show a significant frequency of subhalo-subhalo mergers (based on an analysis of 25 high-resolution merger trees from Risa Wechsler's group). Some points were raised about these which need to be explored:
- Annika & Adi pointed out that the Rockstar halo finder doesn't use the full phase space information to assign sub-subhalos - this is a limitation of Rockstar and may mean that apparent subhalo-subhalo mergers are only transitory. This needs checking and could maybe be resolved by looking over multiple timesteps to see if the subhalos remain physically associated.
- There is currently no cut on merger mass ratio, so the mergers are dominated by objects close to the resolution limit, which we probably won't care about much. Yu is going to look into applying one (or more) mass ratio cuts.

# Other papers discussed

We discussed the recent paper by Henriques et al.:

http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2014arXiv1410.0365H

and the fact that they find that they need to shut off ram pressure stripping in all halos below ~1e14Msun to match the distribution of passive and star forming galaxies. None of us really understand why this is the case! Yu pointed out that they claim a strong constraint on the mass scale at which ram pressure must be shut off.

Adi pointed out the recent paper by Nipoti & Binney:

http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2014arXiv1410.6169N

which shows how dynamical friction from gas clouds in galaxies can create cores in dark matter halos. This may be something we want to incorporate in our models?

[Mike] I'm very skeptical of these results: the softening length of the clumps is 63 pc in their model that develops a 100pc core and 235 pc in the run that develops a 300 pc core. The 100 pc core would likely be unresolvable even without the clumps, as they have a DM force softening of 36 pc in DM. This is not to say that we shouldn't investigate core formation through dynamical friction of gas clumps, of course, but I'm not very confident in these specific results.
