Meeting notes for 17 October 2014
=================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Mike Boylan Kolchin
- Adi Zolotov
- Stephanie Tonneson
- Yu Lu

Two major threads of the work were discussed: ram pressure stripping hydro simulations (to be carried our by Stephanie); and SAM+MCMC studies to constrain the parameters of models and understand what physics is relevant.

# Ram pressure stripping simulations

Stephanie gave a list of required input information for her simulations:
- Orbital information so that we can get rho*v^2;
- Pressures in the Milky Way halo gas (since we may want to compare this pressure with the ram pressure forces);
- Suitable potentials to use for the satellite galaxies;
  - Currently these hydro simulations use fixed potentials for dark matter and stars (Burkert), along with live gas
- Structure of the dwarfs (density profiles etc.)
- How to treat star formation, cooling, feedback, etc.

It was suggested that Adi could provide input on many of these issues based on her cosmological simulations. Andrew B. suggested that we should begin with simulations ignoring star formation to keep things simple.

Andrew B. raised the question of whether rho*v^2 change rapidly along a satellites orbit (i.e. on a timescale short compared to the ram pressure stripping timescale). If so, we would need to provide a suitable time-varying rho*v^2 to feed into the hydro simulations. Adi pointed out that we should look at the distribution (or, at least, min and max) values of these timescales.

Stephanie asked about the spatial distribution of stars in satellites (as a function of age/metallicity/etc.). Annika suggested that there might be some information from Tolstoy's group showing segregation by metallicity.

# SAM+MCMC

Andrew B. and Yu agreed that it makes sense to use Galacticus for these calculations. 

Yu raised the issue of how we ensure that the model is getting SFHs correct for isolated dwarfs, so that we know our dwarfs are reasonable before we start subjecting them to environmental effects. This requires a calibration set for isolated dwarfs. We agreed to seek input from Dan on this (and possibly also from Marla Geha).

The question of whether to include metallicities of dwarfs as an additional constraint? Yu pointed out that this can in principle tell us about outflows and feednack. Mike suspects that getting the SFHs correct will lead to the metallicities being right without additional tuning. This seems like a good hypothesis for us to test! Yu is skeptical because outflows and environmental effects may alter the metal enrichment histories in different ways.

Yu raised the question of whether we use Monte Carlo or N-body merger trees. N-body trees give us more dynamical information, but we would have fewer realizations to work with. Andrew B. pointed out that Galacticus will soon have functionality to follow satellite orbits analytically. This would still need calibrating against N-body simulations though.

Andrew B. agreed to update the install of Galacticus on Oakley at OSU so that it can be used there.
