Meeting notes for 06 February 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Stephanie Tonneson
- Yu Lu
- Adi Zolotov

Stephanie: Is setting up simulations using orbits from Andrew B's SAM catalogs with matched orbital parameters, and galaxy structural parameters. It was suggested that it would be good to add the hot halo component to these galaxies also so that we can compare how quickly this gets stripped away to the current model in Andrew B's SAM.

Yu: Showed lots of animations of merging halos/subhalos for MW+LMC/SMC systems. It's clear from these that the LMC/SMC halos really do grow at about the same rate as the MW at early times, but at some point their growth is truncated, allowing the MW to grow to become more massive. There are also clear cases where the halo identified as the proto-MW "jumps" in spatial coordinates. This suggests a problem in the tree building algorithm - Yu is going to look into this.

Adi: Showed a figure of star formation histories for satellite galaxies taken from hydro simulations. These look very different from those in Andrew B's SAM - with low mass galaxies all forming their stars early over a very short duration, and the more massive systems having more extended histories. This is presumably because of the different prescriptions for star formation/feedback. Andrew B. suggested that we could run his SAM on the exact same merger trees from the hydro simulations and see if it's possible to reproduce the hydro results in the SAM.
