Meeting notes for 13 March 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Andrew Wetzel
- Yu Lu
- Stephanie Tonneson

Updates: 

Annika: Reported on the Nichols & Bland-Hawthorn papers. Detailed comments are in the repo {repo: Papers/comments_on_papers.pdf}.

Andrew B/Stephanie: We now have SAMs running which match closely the mass distributions assumed in Enzo, and which switch off star formation/feedback/cooling in satellites to allow direct comparison with the ram pressure stripping models that Stephanie is running. One problem is that cosmological mergers don't give many very radial orbits. So, we may consider re-running these models using an artificial orbital parameter distribution so that we better span the range of parameters that we'd like to explore. 

Yu: Has been working on setting up the observational data and likelihood function (see Andrew B's notes on this {repo: Mass_Function_Likelihood.pdf}) to use with his SAM. Plans next week to actually get the MCMC running on eero (Carnegie cluster) to constrain the SAM parameters. Andrew B. raised the point that the likelihood function we're using assumes that the model predictions for the number of satellite galaxies in a mass bin are Poisson distributed, but in fact we've only checked that the variance is consistent with Poisson. Since we may have cases where an observed satellite is rare according to the model (e.g. LMC perhaps) we should check whether the model really does produce a Poisson distribution (i.e. that its higher order moments match also).

Andrew W.: Planning to review literature on the Milky Way gas halo density and temperature structure for next week.
