Meeting notes for 13 March 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Mike B-K
- Yu Lu
- Stephanie Tonneson

Updates: 

Stephanie: Has a stable galaxy! Pressure in surrounding gas halo was too
high. Have a relatively steeply declining pressure in the disk, but a
relatively flat pressure profile in the host halo. If this is too high,
this affects the peak pressure even in the center of the disk. We don't
want to mess with this when looking at ram pressure stripping, since
pressure balances gravitational restoring force in simple calculations
of ram pressure stripping.

Yu: Previous tests demonstrated that variance in SAM predicted mass
functions is consistent with Poisson. Wanted to test if higher order
moments are also consistent with Poisson. Look at 2nd to 4th
moment. Generated 10,000 Monte Carlo mass functions for
comparison. Using these to estimate errors on moments computed from 38
realizations, shows that results are all consistent with Poisson. Can
safely use Poisson likelihood for MCMC runs. {Mike: subhalo mass
function is not Poissonian - want to look into this more carefully and
under}

Yu: Given this Poisson model, have implemented this likelihood in the
MCMC code, got it running on the Carnegie cluster (eero). Some small
issues to figure out. Using approximate tree evolution where we ignore
branches of the tree that aren't important for our calculation. Finding
that runs are slower on eero - not sure where this overhead comes from -
computation time is doubled compared to what was expected. {Stephanie:
could test how it scales to see if this is a communication issue.}

