Meeting notes for 27 February 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Yu Lu
- Andrew Wetzel
- Adi Zolotov

Updates: 

- AJB: Still working on matching density profiles to what Stephanie uses in her simulations. Still working out the last few bugs, so should hopefully be finished by early next week......
- Yu: Talked to Peter Behroozi about the issue of "jumps" in the locations of halos in the N-body merger trees built using RockStar. Apparently there's no easy fix for these problems. So we need to be cautious when using these trees in any analysis (e.g. check whether results change if the trees showing these problems are removed).

Other tasks:

Annika suggested that we think about other tasks that we need to undertake and which can be done in parallel with the current work.

- Compiling and assessing the available observational data (satellite mass functions, metallicities, star formation histories) - how should we compare models to these data?
- Examine the difference in subhalo properties in dark matter only vs. baryonic hydro simulations. Can we construct simple models for the effects of baryonic processes on the evolution of subhalo properties?
- How do we select a "Milky Way-like" halo? The simplest answer is to select based on total halo mass, but we could in principle select on other properties (halo concentation, presence of LMC/SMC system, etc.). How much does this affect the results? If these constraints are made too restrictive the problem might become intractable (i.e. we can only generate merger trees statistically, so would need huge samples in order to find a subsample which adequately matched the restrictions.
- How can we speed up the process of MCMC+SAM? Yu suggests only evolving branches of the tree which will be of direct interest (i.e. those which result in surviving satellites at the present day). Could also subsample branches randomly to avoid having to evolve very large numbers of low mass branches.

Action items:
- Annika: review the Nichols & Bland-Hawthorn papers to see how they might be relevant to our study.
- Adi: generate some plots showing the correspondance between satellite halo properties in DM-only and baryonic simulations of two Milky Way halos.
- Yu: Examine the proposed technique of evolving only "interesting" branches of merger trees and assess how much this influences the final results.
- Andrew: Explore the effects that restricting the merger tree sample to those which match certain criteria affects the predictions for satellite properties.
- ???????: Compile observational data of interest and figure our how best to compare this to models.
