Meeting notes for 17 April 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Stephanie Tonneson

Updates:

Stephanie has simulations running smoothly now. Currently these use satellite orbits from Yu's merger trees, together with a model of the Milky Way halo motivated by simulations. This halo is quite low density and currently does not completely strip the satellites - we may need to explore higher density halos in future if we need fully-stripped satellites to use in calibrating an analytic model of ram pressure stripping. Stephanie plans to explore several different proposed models for ram pressure stripping (Gunn & Gott, energy criterion, column density criterion, pressure criterion) and see which of these can best match the simulations. We expect to have to iterate between the analytic model and simulations to cover the necessary parameter space to get a well-constrained model. We may also want to explore simulations with star formation/feedback later to see how winds are affected by ram pressure.

Projects:

Yu is working on a paper which addresses how the choice of merger tree history affects the satellite population for Milky Way-like halos. He expects to have a draft in 1-2 months.

Yu would also (after finishing the above project) like to working on constraining his model using the measured star formation histories of dwarfs.

Stephanie: Possible project to use observed star formation histories to constrain stripping timescales for the dwarfs. How much of this has already been done? (Ask Andrew Wetzel.)