Meeting notes for 13 March 2015
==================================

Attending:
- Andrew Benson
- Annika Peter
- Andrew Wetzel
- Yu Lu

Updates: 

Annika: Adi has been looking through simulations to extract information
on orbits - work in progress. Nichols & Bland-Hawthorn papers -
semi-analytic modelling of gas stripping and star bursts in MW
satellites. They assume analytic model for growth of MW potential -
throw in spherical galaxy models - implement dynamical friction using
results from Zhao et al. (2004) + crude model for ram pressure stripping
- track hot and cool gas components in satellites, and include radiation
fields from extragalatic+MW+self. Many things could be done better -
e.g. SNe model just raises chunk of gas to 10^6K and letting MW strip
off some of this - also have a model for reaccretion of gas ejected by
SNe. Can incorporate some of this - need to trace orbits.

Andrew: Andrew W. - will we marginalize over MW ICM profile? Yu - should
we include consistent cooling model for cooling of MW halo? Paper by
Bullock & Mike B-K from a few years ago which might be relevant. Andrew
B. - Yes, we should include MW ICM profile observations as constraints
on the model. Andrew W. - given some satellite profile, easy to compute
relative tidal and ram pressure forces - can estimate which effect is
the more important for stripping gas.

Yu: {repo: SAM_LU/SAM_sub_tree_scheme.pdf} Describes method for pruning
away uninteresting branches from merger trees before running through his
SAM. Only follow branches which lead to subhalos that exist at the
present day. Cuts computation time in ~half. For 95% of satellites,
there is no change in the final stellar mass after this pruning. Central
galaxy, stellar mass has ~10% error (due to ignoring branches which
would merge with the central). Errors in satellite masses occur if a
subhalo hosts a subhalo at some early time, and that sub-subhalo later
merges into the main branch. The sub-subhalo is pruned away in this
method, and means the estimate of the total baryon mass of the subhalo
is changed. This seems to be the cause of the discrepancies. This error
should not be present at all in EPS merger trees. We will have to
revisit how well this method works if we introduce additional physics
(e.g. ram pressure stripping) that is affected by the main branch gas
distribution for example.
